# 2025.12.01 - 2nd Attempt

Over thanksgiving break, I have taken what I have learned form my initial test of running a `Proxmox` cluster and have reinstalled everything from scratch.

#### For each machine:

- I set up a network for for internal ssh and `corosync` cluster traffic on `10.0.1.1-3/24` using the gigabit ethernet interface on each board.
- Secured the ssh server to only accept keys instead of passwords (for now, only the default root user is set up, the plan is to move away from the root user in favor for a less privileged account with SUDO access)
- Enabled the Wireless interfaces on the board, this time following a [forum post](https://forum.proxmox.com/threads/howto-proxmox-ve-8-1-2-wifi-w-snat.142831/) that implements Source Network Address Translation (SNAT).
    - I believe this is set up to use Software Defined Networking across all three nodes, meaning that the internal SNAT network is shared and accessible between each node. Further testing and research is required.
- Updated and configured each host via the [Proxmox Post-Install Script](https://community-scripts.github.io/ProxmoxVE/scripts?id=post-pve-install).

#### Current plans in the works:

- Securing the network: Enable firewall, create security groups for web console and ssh access.
- Securing the hardware: Create non-root administrative users, access root privileges with SUDO.
- Looking into creating a bonded network for the wireless interfaces?
- Install some containers, test out network reliability.
